# pandas-challenge
Heroes of Pymoli 

The Heroes of Pymoli project is based on sorting and filtering data in Pandas through the use of group by and other filtering commands.  The aim is to extract useful information from the player purchase habits in a freemium style game.  Specific observations can be made once data has been thoughtfully organized and presented.  The outputs are dataframes generated in Jupyter Notebook.  

**Heroes of Pymoli Observations**

Heroes of Pymoli is a freemium style game that generates revenue through in game microtransactions.  Analsyis of the player universe and purhcase transactions has yielded the following observations:

1. There are 576 unique players that have made  purchases, of those 84.03% are male.

2. Looking at the dollars generated by gender, out of a total $2,379.77 in revenue, males account for 82.68% of those dollars.

3. Interestingly the average purchase price by female players is higher than males, at \\$3.20 versus \\$3.02 per purchase.

4. Age demographics indicate that 44.79% of the players are aged 20-24.  On top of that we can also see that 76.74% of players fall between the ages of 15-29.

5. Looking at sales by age demographics, 20-24 year old players provide 46.81% of revenue.  The age range of 15-29 year old players generates 76.35% of total revenues.  

6. Our analysis of the most profitable items section shows the top 5 items prices per item exceed the average purchase price of $3.05 by a minimum of 38.69%.

**Conclusion**

The analysis of sales activity in Heroes of Pymoli provides interesting insights.  Possible ongoing strategies to increase revenue within the game might revolve around finding ways to increase the female share of players making purchases, or including more premium items that players desire.  It is also possible to explore ways to broaden the age range of the gamer base depending on player preferences.  Finding ways to diversify the experience and players participating ultimately will lead to a longer game life and revenue base to generate profit from.
